# Emma AI Puzzler Reflection

### Initial Interaction
To start this process we had some structure. We knew that we wanted a tech design document, and we had just learned what that could look like and what it was supposed to do for both programmer and reviewer. The speed at which we were able to create that document along with editing it with a new architecture and approach was so fast. To the point that I don't think we built in a lot of time for review ourselves. I would say that will be a recurring theme on this reflection. The speed at which AI produces documents and code is intimidating and also an overwhelming amount of information to process. So the back and forth between the snails pace of human review (and junior dev!!) compared to the speed of AI is an incredibly tricky task. I digress.

### Improvement + Adjustments
It was my first time working with Copilot and also my first time using ChatGPT to build out tech that I am completely unfamiliar with. I have used ChatGPT to help me problem solve small and contextual problems, typically using it as a speedier docs or stackoverflow look up than really an architect and full system developer. I quickly found out that we could use ChatGPT to format and output tickets. That had me really curious what CoPilot would do with those ticket criteria if it were in context with the other files we had. We developed a process of using the criteria ChatGPT outlined in subtickets based on the overall approach as comments in our files so that CoPilot could then write the code.

I really gave the reins to Copilot in this scenario. This is where the speed became very apparent. With that process, the entire fileSystemService file was written in less than 5 minutes. So I had all these tickets for all these methods I was thinking it would take me a while to write and then all those tickets were completed. But then I had all this code that I didn't know how to test! So that was the next part of the journey.

After realizing that the speed was very real and that I needed a better method for understanding and testing the code (and not giving into the impulse ot have coPilot glue the architecture together without me really understanding and be totally done with the project), Sarah and I began working much more in collaboration to query ChatGPT to understand the code and develop tests for File System, which was completely new territory for us and more difficult to figure out than we expected, even with the lightning speed of AI, figuring out a testing suite that could run and work took us basically a whole day, which compared to the speed previously mentioned, was a long time! However, our updated process of having ChatGPT detail the code, and then the back and forth between querying errors with ChatGPT and developing code with CoPilot, we have two test suites that both of us as humans and junior devs understand. That was the point where it seemed like we were using our "developer" brains alongside these AI tools -- we had to be really specific and really figure out what we needed to ask.

### Feedback
I think this was a really fascinating problem set to use AI with. I think having the sans-AI introduction to the dev cycle as juniors as well as having us write the tech doc for the algorithm was such a good introduction: we didn't know much, but we had a general sense of how tech docs, tickets, and PRs were supposed to work. We also knew how to build an API, but I think it was particularly smart to bring in new tech for us, and the cue to use the Architecture was really really interesting because that gave us an additional nugget of information to share with AI, and really helped us construct something so totally new to us as new developers. I am so curious what I will think of this code in even one year from now, since right now all I know is that it works...for the most part outside some TypeScript type errors... 

If I was to change anything about it, maybe receiving the architecture (controller, provider, services, data access) sooner, only because I think that set the stage for just how complicated the API actually was going to be; when Dustin showed us sample code of that architecture that's when I was like, okay we REALLY don't know what we're doing. And that's when also we had some more clues to give the AI tools. It's a tricky combination though, since really the output we are able to get from ChatGPT is only as good as the context that we have as humans, and Sarah and I did not have the structural context to start with. Again, I'm still feeling really surprised by this journey, so I am really unsure of what I would actually change about it.

### Final Thoughts
* It's so fast!! This would have taken me probably two weeks to do on my own. I learned a lot and in a really different way, and I'm not sure what I know now is best practice, but I do have a better sense of what this tech is (express, filesystem, and the new architecture) and how to use it.
* I want to find a way where the slower way of learning and the more painful way of learning (getting stuck on a single problem for an hour or two) works with this fast and kind of painless learning method. The pain with working with AI comes more from the self-control (or lack thereof) to slow down and read code rather than write and tinker with it...well I guess I still did a lot of tinkering with code, but I didn't have to write it all out.
* I think it was really smart to have us build out such a new and difficult problem like this with AI. Anything else could have gone so fast.
* We found some weird surprising pain points in the dev process. Mainly the speed at which we could write code was too fast for normal subtickets and PRs.
* For me, I think I will need something to balance the speed with the review and testing and learning. It's just a little jarring.
* I am feeling shockingly confident again after all this (I had mentioned my ego and confidence taking a hit regularly in this process). But I think it makes me feel fearless about tackling new and complex code, that I can understand it eventually, and also that I still had a TON of problem solving and work to do, it just looked different than what I usual expect when coding.
* As long as there are tough puzzles, I'm a happy coder.
* I was also somewhat surprised by the loneliness of exclusively interacting with AI tools to develop the entirety of this project. I don't think that will be a normal thing, but having human conversation to understand and develop good code is essential to me.